Modern, accredited, recognised

Modern, accredited education in English language. The aim is to prepare students to enrol the best universities worldwide. GALILEO HIGH SCHOOL is accredited by the Ministry of Education and is the first International Pearson Edexcel Centre in Slovakia. This provides for the award of international qualification certificates recognised across the globe.

The teaching goal of GALILEO SCHOOL is to prepare students to overcome any barriers there might be to an immediate and smooth transition to the university studies. The ability of a student to understand the content of the subject in English language is essential for such. Hence acquiring the knowledge content and skills in academic subjects in English is the fundamental principle of GALILEO SCHOOL.
[Section]
Path to great universities

The graduates of GALILEO SCHOOL study at the top universities, from Oxford and Cambridge, through Santa Clara in Silicon Valley, Kings College in London to Edinburgh and Glasgow in Scotland. Our students became successful in a variety of professional carrier, from a founder of a multimillion company in London, a GLOBSEC Young Leader 2019, a member of the Permanent Mission of Slovakia to the United Nations, to a researcher of sustainable energy in Africa or an IT safety researcher at the Oxford University.

Small class sizes, student-centred approach, and a focus on individual interest of a student. Students build a portfolio of knowledge, skills and international certificates tailored to their preferred future career. The teaching and learning use embedded streaming, lesson materials, communication and assignments online using Microsoft Teams and Office 365.
[Section]
Individual approach to learning

Education that focuses on academics is supported by plentiful opportunities to enhance the individual formation of a student. International competitions, internships, exchange trips with partner schools, cooperation with professionals and a support of an individual talent of each student are all part of the education experience at GALILEO SCHOOL.

Based on successful partnerships with Microsoft and Cisco the school has been recently able to provide the full academic teaching schedule via 100% online learning since the start of the pandemic. Students and teachers alike quickly adopted the online learning mode from the day one, exploring the benefits of modern technology and developing vital skills for future as a result of the pandemic. All resources, assignments, grades and communication are shared via the Microsoft Teams environment, with online classes streamed via Teams Meet or Cisco Webex Meet app.